In this video I'm going to explain a bit
about hardware virtualization and the
various BIOS settings that can disable it.
Now laptop manufacturers in
particular disable hardware
virtualization in the machines BIOS so
enabling it can really speed up the
emulators and they will allow hexam to
run on Windows. So why is this important?
Well the Android virtual devices or
emulators that you'll use to test your
apps are on virtual machines so what
that means is that a program is running
on your computer that behaves just like
an Android device it's not a real
Android device and it doesn't have the
hardware than an Android device has
instead it's all emulated in software
so in Virtual Machines firstly the cloud
is built on virtualization, modern
hardware allows virtual machines to run
on PCs and laptops they can run
different operating systems on a single
computer and the virtual machines used
to say use the host computers hardware.
Virtualization technology has really
taken off in the past few years in fact
the cloud is largely built on it one
advantage is when you need a new web
server to meet demand for example using
traditional hardware you have to install
the operating system and all the
software that it needs you'd also have
to run network cables to connect it to
the network make sure there are enough
power sockets nearby and there are loads
of other stuff
by running a powerful computer that
hosts virtual servers you can start a
new server up from an image really
quickly when demand drops again you can
just shut down and delete the virtual
machine. Now virtual machines aren't
actually new, IBM had them in the 1960s
but now that we have far more powerful
hardware virtualization has really taken
off another advantage of virtualization
is that you can run different operating
systems on the same computer at the same
time. Now this is extremely useful as a
developer because you can make sure your
program behaves correctly on different
operating systems without having to
actually have loads of different computers.
You still don't need a license for each
operating system that you want to run in
a VM of course though so as well as my
Mac I actually have a license for
Windows and I can start up a virtual
machine running the Windows operating
system right here on my Mac, so here I am
actually running Windows 10 on my Mac so
you can see in the background that I've
got my Mac but in the foreground here in
his window I've actually got a Windows
virtual machine running so for me
OS X on my machine is the host operating
system with Windows running as a guest,
so it's important to remember that
there's only a single set of hardware
here so the windows guest is using the
same processor or processors on a
multiprocessor machine as OS X so doing
this on a desktop computer 10 or 15
years ago was possible but was a lot
slower than it is on average desktops
these days even start running to
operating systems like this one does
slow things down a little bit more
importantly memory can become an issue
the Machine Hardware still has only got
the same amount of RAM so there has to
be enough RAM installed for both
operating systems to have access to what
they need the 64-bit version of Windows
8 or 10 requires 2 gigabytes of memory
to run minimum and that's just the
operating system requirements so running
say Windows 10 VM is going to need at
least 2 gigabytes of your computer's
memory, so on a machine with only 4
gigabytes you can see that things can
and will get a little bit tight just to
show that this is working I can actually
just come up here and I can just open
something on the windows side of things
I can open Notepad which is a Windows
desktop app this is a test and so
it's running quite nicely and for all
intent and purposes it actually is a
full Windows installation it's actually
just running the computer and I can go
down here to about and you can see that
I've got Windows 10 professional edition
here I've got 8 gigabytes of RAM
allocated to this virtual machine and
I'm running a 64-bit edition of Windows 10.
The other thing I can do just very
quickly I won't save that change is I
can even put this into full-screen mode
so I'm going to do that briefly and then
we'll swap out of it again just so you
can see what actually happens so I can
come up here to the soft
that is running this virtualization
software called parallels on my Mac and
I can change this to fullscreen so let's
just go have a go and look at that and
you can see that it took a moment to
adjust but now I'm actually running at
full screen and again they've got the
same options I had before but I can
still move my mouse up to the top here
and still get access to the Mac menu and
I can come back here and click on exit
full screen and finally one other thing
I can do which is where VMs are starting
to blend in with normal operator with
other operating systems I can type in my
notepad again and I can come up here to
parallels and click on view and this
time going to go into inter coherence
mode I'll click on yes to that and
coherence mode actually merge sort of
merges the two operating systems in
terms of the interface at least and what
I could then do is over here I've got my
Windows application I've got my window
this is a test and I'm actually running
an inner piece that I'm running on on
the Mac and it's not actually in a
separate window and I can actually come
over here get access to the Windows
Start menu like so and I can run
different apps whatever I want to do
there I could run file explorer and
there's my file explorer and these
windows that can be dragged around so
really getting the best of both worlds
where the two operating systems
even though Windows is running as a
separate virtual machine enables me to
sort of merge them I don't have to have
one separate window like I did when I
went back to this mode so just get out
of that mode to go back to the original
mode that I was in before we started so
that's what it looks like in a window.
Alright so that's virtualization
running on a Mac, so when as hardware
virtualization come in
so modern Intel and AMD CPUs have
additional support for virtualization.
Now virtualization extensions on Intel
CPUs are called VT-x or VT-x on AMD
CPUs is called amd-v.
now VT x may be disabled in the bios
amd-v is always enabled additional
virtualization support may be provided
by setting such as VT-d, GVT-ds
and IOMMU so enable enable these
settings if you find them in your bios
but make a note of everything you change
just in case you need to put a pack
no hardware virtualization on x86
processors use additional instructions
called virtualization extensions that
are built into the CPU. Now CPUs with
these extensions can run guest operating
systems much more efficiently because
support for the VM is available in
hardware rather than having to be
emulated in software and there is a
wealth of information available with
these various acronyms things like we
talked about on the previous page vtx vtd etc
basically though when you're going to
look at your BIOS if it starts with VT-
or AMD- in your BIOS that enable it
make a careful note though of everything
you change and if you get any problems
then you can turn it all off again and
re-enable one thing at a time until you
identify the one that caused the
problems amd-v can't be disabled in the
BIOS so if you have an AMD processor
that supports virtualization then it
will already be enabled having said that
there are some other supporting
technologies such as IOMMU or AMD vi
that are worth checking in enabling if
they are disabled even with an AMD CPU.
So enough of the theory, the practical
implications of this are that you may
have a machine that supports hardware
virtualization but it may be disabled in
your bios. Now if Android studio
successfully installed hexam on a
Windows or Mac computer then everything
setup falling and you don't need to do
anything else but if you've got an error
installing hexam then the rest of this
video should help you to get it working
providing your computer does support
hardware virtualization of course now
I'm going to start with a note here for
Mac users and if you have a Mac then
virtualization should be enabled if the
hardware supports it and all recent Macs
as far as I'm aware do fully support it
and I've never had a problem getting
hexam to run on a variety of a Macs that
I've owned over a period of years so
long as you've got an Intel CPU which as
of the date of this recording or video
all Macs created in probably the last
seven or eight years our until only
you'll be good to go and you should find
it you've had no problem
but if for some reason you've got some
issue and you think VTX should be
available but it isn't then you may
possibly may not have applied the latest
firmware updates check out this page and
the link will be available in the
resources section, so you don't need to
sort of write it down have a look on
there and that page if there's any
information you need to know if you're
not getting the results you think he
should be getting on a Mac but if you're
running Windows or Linux and VTX or
AMD's equivalent amd-v
isn't available then the first thing you
should do is check that your hardware
does actually support it.
So searching online for your computer
model and the text enable hardware
virtualization
provide the information you need. Now for
non-standard or self-build computers
check the manual for your motherboard or
search online for your motherboard
possibly including the you know the
model number of the motherboard as well
which would be quite handy and help you
to find it and also append the words
enable hardware virtualization. Now if
you have a system that should support
virtualization then reboot the computer
and press the relevant key to get into
your BIOS, on many Windows systems this
is the delete button or f2 but your menu
should tell you somewhere how to do this.
Now if you don't press the appropriate
key in time the computer will actually
boot into your operating system so
you'll have to reboot and try again
some systems may require you to power
off rather than restart so bear that in
mind if you're struggling now it's not
possible to run software to record the
screen when you in BIOS settings but
even if I could I'd have to swing over
to a Windows machine and show you that
machines BIOS which may still be
completely different to yours so if you
have a manual for your motherboard then
you'll find all the information you need
in there otherwise just make a note of
your BIOS details and reboot so you can
search online for a manual word of
caution here though be very very careful
what you change, if you don't know what
something does then leave it alone as it
could actually damage your hardware if
you make changes to clock settings etc
overclocking for example requires care
so don't be tempted to play around with
those settings unless you really know
what you're doing and the other thing to
keep in mind is you can always exit from
the BIOS settings without saving if you
inadvertently change something also make
a note of every setting that you do
change including what menu it's on so
that you can undo the change if you
start getting problems afterwards, this
is one of those times where there's no
digital substitute for a pen and a piece
of paper enabling a hardware
virtualization shouldn't cause any
problems but that's there's so many
different systems available I can't
really tell you exactly what to change
so it's really best to play safe and
keep a record of everything and what I'm
going to do is just put a couple of
links on the screen here now and all
these links will be available in the
resources section this is just giving
you an idea of what some of the yellow
bioses may look like you can see there's
an option on there that's for an award
bias but for the lovano
you'll be able to check these as I
mentioned a letter time that looks a
little bit different so you can see that
menu but this is sort of what the bios
is looking like on various computers the
Phoenix bios
they're just created by different term
manufacturers but essentially do the
same thing by our stands for basic
input/output system in case you're
wondering that's the Phoenix then the
AMD version of the a ufi bias that's
that one there because he has a more
modern version and we're gonna aim the
equivalent as well and noting the Intel
virtualization so we're setting the
enabling the Intel virtualization on
there and looking at some of the other
options, you can't probably see that too
well but there's an option there for
virtualization technology to enable
until virtual technology so we would
enable that and virtualization
technology enable so we're looking for
something along those lines it's in the
last one the ETD
which is actually on an AMD bios, so once
you've enabled VTX
and other settings such as a MDVI IOMMU
etc you should find after you do that in
reboot back into Windows that you should
be able to install hexam on that machine
and your Linux machine will also run the
emulator as much faster keep in mind
that hexam isn't needed on Linux because
KVM automatically uses hardware
virtualization if it's available now if
it's not available the Lynx machines can
actually still use the x86 emulators
even without it so you can use the
emulators we downloaded in this in the
video on configuring Android studio in
this section of the course on a Windows
or a Mac though you can't run the x86
emulators without hexam so if you can't
enable hardware virtualization to get
hexam working on Windows you have to
actually use the a RM images that I
showed you how to download in the
configure Android SDK video. Now they
should work fine but unfortunately will
be a lot slower than the x86 ones
because the software has to translate
instruction codes for an ARM CPU into
instructions for your x86 CPU before it
can execute them and finally if you
can't get emulators running or that's
running so slowly that you're getting
frustrated remember that you can always
use a physical Android device to test
your programs now obviously you'll only
be able to test
the version of Android that your device
is running but for doing this course a
physical device is fired and you can
manage without running an emulator that
might actually be a better solution if
your computer has only got about four
gigabytes of RAM because you'll have
that issue of Android the image needing
RAM and by the time you're loading
Android studio Java etc you're gonna be
running out of memory so do consider
doing that particularly these days with
Android devices being available so
cheaply that it might actually be a
better option to just grab an Android
physical device rather than messing
around with an emulator if you're having
lots of problems with that.  Alright so
I'm going to finish this video here now.
I'll see you in the next video.